[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>SUE MORTER: We so
often lose our way
in the chaos of
health trends, diets,
and emerging scientific
insights dictating what to do
and what not to do.
David "Avocado" Wolfe
is with us to help
navigate these tricky waters
to find deep wellness.
With over 12 million
followers on Facebook,
David Wolfe is proof
that the public
is awakening to self-empowerment
when it comes to health.
He's here to talk about
the importance of charcoal
in daily detox and
exciting discoveries
in the field of longevity.
Welcome, David, to
"Healing Matrix."
>>DAVID WOLFE:
Thank you, Dr. Sue.
Great to be here.
>>SUE: Wonderful to have you.
So you grew up in a family
of doctors, as did I.
And so I'm very curious
to hear what that was like
for you to see health
care from the inside out,
as you must have.
>>WOLFE: A lot of ways it was
good because I had seen stuff
like--
1975, I was five years old.
There was a guy who had
crashed his motorcycle.
I think he was high on
cocaine and alcohol.
And my dad stitched him
up and saved his life
right there in front of
me, like 300 stitches.
It was intense.
So I learned things right there
because it was such a crisis
situation.
My dad couldn't get
me out of the room.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>WOLFE: So I was in there
watching what was going on.
So I learned how to
stitch people up early
and how to deal with broken
bones in the old way.
Now they put all these
pins and plates in people.
And my dad did it the old way,
so I learned all that stuff.
And my mom, she ran the office.
And she was an
anesthesiologist, so I learned
about those kinds of things.
And I went to medical
trade shows with my dad
as a real little kid,
four, five, six years old.
So I saw it from the
inside out all my life.
And that's why I'm into
alternative medicine today.
>>SUE: Excellent.
So what do you think you gleaned
from that whole background that
brought you to
where you are today?
>>WOLFE: Well,
the good, like how
to put somebody back together,
the bad, and the ugly.
And there's some ugly
things going on, as we know,
with what's going on
with drugs and the pill
for every ill theory,
which is really-- it's
a very materialistic theory.
And it's the default theory
of our medical system.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>WOLFE: And so therefore
it's quite dangerous
because we know that we're
actually a holistic being.
We're spiritual, emotional,
mental, and physical.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>WOLFE: And all of those
things need to be addressed.
And so our health care
needs to advance into that,
which at some level it's doing.
It's a little slow for my
taste, but we're getting there--
>>SUE: [LAUGHS] I understand.
>>WOLFE: --slowly but surely.
>>SUE: I grew up with the same,
so you're singing my song.
I completely get
it that we are--
to approach all of this
from a holistic standpoint
if we're ever really
going to get anywhere.
>>WOLFE: Yes.
>>SUE: So you had a
transformative experience at 18
regarding nutrition,
dietary needs.
So can you share a little bit
with our audience about that?
>>WOLFE: OK.
Well, I got started--
I think I started into
nutrition at some level
when I was 14 and
just being interested
in supplements, and protein
powders, and stuff like that.
But when I was 18, 19,
somewhere around there,
I started realizing I'm
allergic to dairy products.
And that was really,
as I found out,
was cow's milk, commercially
available, homogenized,
non-organic cow's milk, which
we all grow up on in America.
And so I realized, oh, I'm
having a problem with this.
And so that began my
search into different types
of diets and veganism.
So I started with
veganism when I was 19.
It's been like--
I've been a vegetarian
for over 30 years.
And it's just-- that's what
I like, and I enjoy it.
I'm happy about that because
I love animals, actually.
And I don't think
vegetarianism or veganism
is the best for everybody.
It's a great experiment,
and you'll learn a lot,
and you may find that it's
the right path for you,
as I found it was the
right path for me.
But I stay with it now
because I love animals,
and that's where I come from,
and I don't want to eat them.
[LAUGHTER]
>>SUE: Understood.
Now, when it comes to
essential nutrition,
it might not come to mind for
everyone to immediately think
about activated charcoal.
So can you speak
to us about that?
>>WOLFE: My whole
career has been about,
how do we take the most
important breakthroughs
in health and longevity and
make it simple for everybody?
And what are the
simplest ideas, and what
are the simplest concepts?
And that got me into raw foods
because raw foods is so simple.
Just eat the food as it is.
Eat the apple as it is.
Eat the bell pepper as it is.
Eat the lettuce as
it is because that's
the way nature created it.
>>SUE: Leave it alone.
>>WOLFE: Leave it alone.
Don't do anything.
Looking at every way
to get people healthy,
what's the simplest and
easiest thing to do?
I came across something
eventually about five years ago
that really rocked me.
And it happened in
a roundabout way.
A friend of mine had called me.
She's an Olympic
trainer from Calgary.
And she said, have you ever
heard of the C60 stuff?
And I was like, no.
And so she's like,
here, here's a website.
Check it out.
Now, about two weeks
before, I've been thinking,
I've got to know off
the top of my head
the top longevity
studies on animals ever.
Sure enough, I hit that
website, and there it
is, the top
longevity study ever.
And it's a toxicology
study on carbon 60,
which is a carbon
compound that's
found in activated charcoal.
And it's found where
lightning strikes a tree.
When you have a high electrical
arc striking wood or graphite,
you're going to
have the production
of these types of
compounds, which
are unique carbon compounds.
It's another
allotrope of carbon.
You have graphite.
You have diamonds.
They're both carbon.
Diamond is the
same as what you're
going to find in
charcoal, for example.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>WOLFE: But they're different.
And we call that an allotrope.
So this eventually led me
to Sir Harry Kroto's work
and Rick Smalley's work.
They won the Nobel
Prize for elucidating
the structure of the
carbon 60 molecule in 1996.
And then eventually after
about two months of really--
I just went, I'm all in.
So I'm suddenly
doing five droppers
full of this stuff,
carbon 60 and olive oil,
because that's what the
research was done on,
the toxicology research,
which, by the way,
doubled the lifespan
of these animals.
That's why I was like, oh, I
better start taking this stuff.
So I started taking this stuff.
And it was too much, of course.
You're going to hit too
much of anything taking
five, 10 droppers full a day.
You should start with one.
>>SUE: [LAUGHS]
>>WOLFE: I trust my instincts.
Over the years, I've learned
to trust my instincts.
And I really recommend that
people trust their instincts.
And what ended up
happening is that I
start having very strong
cravings for activated
charcoal.
And so I started
going, let me just
start taking some activated
charcoal with the C60.
And then a thought hit me.
And I thought, wait
a second, carbon 60
is found in activated charcoal.
It's the number one longevity
substance ever found.
I better look at activated
charcoal and longevity.
And then I hit the jackpot.
Because this is something
that everybody has access to.
It's very simple.
The concept is very simple.
We live in a toxic world.
Our food, air, and water
is loaded with toxins.
I mean, just driving down
the highway here to get here,
we've got all this exhaust.
We're breathing in
all this brake dust
and exhaust from
all these engines.
Some of the worst
carcinogens are right there.
We're breathing it in.
We're relying on our liver,
our kidneys, and our spleen,
and other filtration organs
to filter that stuff off.
Is it possible that
we're overloaded?
And I'd say the answer
is very likely yes.
So carbon is an
excellent detoxifier.
It's the best.
It cleans your water--
charcoal filters.
It cleans your air--
It's what you use, for
example, in dialysis.
What do they use to
clean your blood?
Charcoal filters.
What is the best filtration
mechanism there is?
It's charcoal.
And it's adsorptive,
interestingly, not absorbtive
like a sponge--
adsorptive, like
electromagnetically
attracts the wrong
charged materials.
Like heavy metals, for
example, or glyphosate
is attracted to the charcoal.
So it's not a sponge.
People think, oh, it's a sponge.
It isn't.
>>SUE: So it's more
like electroplating.
>>WOLFE: Yes.
It's like a refrigerator.
The charcoal comes in
like your refrigerator,
and it attracts all
those magnets to it.
But eventually there's
too many magnets,
and it doesn't stick
to the fridge anymore.
And then that
charcoal's been used up.
But that takes a
while to use it up.
>>SUE: Let's go back
for just a moment
and just explain for our
viewers that most people think
about activated charcoal
in a poison situation.
How am I going to absorb?
or how they've referenced
it historically is,
I'm going to take this
to help compensate
for a poisoning that's happened.
>>WOLFE: Yes.
>>SUE: But to take it
on a regular daily basis
is a new thought process.
>>WOLFE: That's right.
>>SUE: So let's just--
>>WOLFE: You got it.
>>SUE: Let's just talk
about that for people
so that they can be assured
to be able to follow along
with our conversation.
>>WOLFE: That's
the transformation
that I went through
five years ago
is I started getting into
it every day, all the time,
instead of just when I
had an upset stomach.
It's very good if you get a
stomach bug, best thing ever.
If you're acutely poisoned or
if somebody is overdosing on
sleeping pills or
something, they
end up in the emergency
room, first line of defense
is going to be the black
bottle, as Holt called it
in his famous 1962
article, which
put activated charcoal
in every emergency room
almost in the entire
world, that one article,
"The Black Bottle."
So for that, we get that part.
It's like the charcoal
adsorbs that toxic bacteria.
It adsorbs the toxic excretions
coming from the bacteria
pretty much immediately.
So all of a sudden your
stomach poisoning, your flu
poisoning, or your food
poisoning, it's like, whoa,
I'm better.
But the daily use of it
is a whole 'nother level.
And so people immediately
go, it's absorbing calcium.
It's absorbing magnesium.
I can't do it
because they're going
to absorb my healthy nutrients.
And the answer to
that is there's never
been a study in
70 years that has
proven that activated
charcoal interferes
with healthy nutrition.
It does not interfere
with protein metabolism,
with fat metabolism, with
carbohydrate metabolism,
with calcium, magnesium
absorption, with B vitamin use,
with vitamin C use, any of it.
Now that's such a shocking
statement because in our minds
we think it's a
sponge, but it isn't.
It's not absorptive.
It's ad-, with a D, -sorptive,
which means it's more
of an electromagnetic
phenomenon.
Now this brings up
something very interesting,
which we should get into,
which is about the light bulb.
When you see charcoal
on a fire, it glows.
It looks like a light.
Looks like a red light.
Well, the very first
light bulbs were not
invented by Thomas Edison.
He just bought the
patent and perfected it.
The original light bulb
filament was charcoal.
And I could go on like
this about all the history
of charcoal.
Gunpowder-- you can't
manufacture gunpowder
without charcoal.
Its history in chemistry,
its history in biology,
its history in farming
is absolutely one
of the greatest stories of
the 20th and 21st century.
It's that big of a story.
I got into using it in
farming, and it completely
transformed our entire
farm in just one
single year, using activated
charcoal and charcoal pellets
to sprout food, and
grow our gardens,
and to revive trees,
and make things fertile.
It has to do with this
very interesting energy
of black substances like
charcoal and black foods, which
have been known in
Daoism to extend life.
>>SUE: And so can you just
share with our viewers
how charcoal becomes activated?
What is that process?
>>WOLFE: OK.
So historically, we always
ate charcoal as human beings.
The coal biter, which
in Scandinavian legend,
is the story of the
runt of the family,
the person in the family who was
not as hardy, as resilient, as
capable to deal with the
elements, and the Arctic Ocean,
and all of that.
They would sit home, and they
would tend the home fire.
And when they were
tending the home fire,
they would eat bits of
charcoal around the edge.
And that was called-- they
were called the coal biter.
From age, say, seven
to 14, they would
go through a startling
metamorphosis,
become the toughest, most
resilient, most capable,
smartest in the
family, the one who
could stay out late and bring
the sheep in and the cows in.
And that became instilled
in the sagas of Iceland,
as a person called a coal biter.
A person was transformed
from one person
maybe not as weak, not as
strong as the rest of the family
or as not as capable
as the rest of family
and then transform that weakness
into strength, into abundance,
into capabilities,
into responsibilities.
And J.R.R. Tolkien was so
profoundly affected by that
that he named his
organization in Oxford
with C.S. Lewis The
Coal Biters to symbolize
that transformation.
Now that's how we always
did it, historically.
But-- this is my
theory on this--
there's always a solution
to every problem instantly
created.
As we got into the
industrial age,
we needed stronger detoxifiers.
So right around 1900,
a Russian scientist
invented a concept called
activating charcoal, which
is you blast superheated
steam through the charcoal
at, say, 900 to 1,000 degrees.
And it pulls off
the remaining 10%
of the volatile
organic compounds,
like the protein that
wasn't fully burned off,
or the sulfur that's
still present,
or nitrogen compounds
that are still present.
To get those out of there,
it makes the substance
more adsorptive so it's
more aggressive and more
effective for a more
toxic situation.
And that's what
activated charcoal is.
Today, mostly made
out of coconut shell
because that's where you can get
a very dense amount of carbon.
And it's an abundant resource.
Used up coconuts is an
abundant resource in the world.
And that's why today it's
mostly activated charcoal
from coconut.
It could be made out of birch.
It could be made out of willow.
It could be made
out of kukui nut.
It could be made out
of walnut shells.
I could be made
out of many things.
It could be made even out of
medicinal mushrooms, which
I do all of those things,
by the way, at home.
But coconut is the easiest
for the world population
to deal with.
>>SUE: And then what kind of
a dosage are you recommending?
What are you seeing results
with, how to take it,
when to take it?
And I also just want
to confirm again
that it does not interfere
with nutritional absorption.
>>WOLFE: Yes.
So I'm confirming that.
It does not interfere
with healthy nutrition.
When you're dealing with
black and the substances that
are black--
Shilajit, fulvic acid,
charcoal, black foods
like Chaga mushroom,
that's the reset.
What you're doing there
is you're kind of like--
when you've been dealing with
digestive distress or troubles
for many, many years, you've
got to go back to the basics,
like black and white foods.
And that's the reset.
So the carbon is actually
resetting your whole digestive
system.
It's an antiseptic substance
par excellence, par excellence.
It's one of the greatest
of all time in that regard.
So what happens is you
put that in your body
at a small dosage at first--
400 milligrams, 250
milligrams, 500 milligrams--
in the morning with your
water before coffee,
before anything else.
My recommendation is wake
up with some purified water,
the best water you
can get a hold of--
I'm a spring water guy.
And then you're going to
put a little bit of sea salt
in there for your electrolytes.
Shake that around.
And then you're
going to take that
with one capsule of
activated charcoal.
That's it, just to start.
>>SUE: Every day?
>>WOLFE: Don't get too crazy.
Every day.
And then you
consistently get that in.
Then over time you go,
yeah, maybe I'll do two.
Let's do two capsules.
And then at some point
you go, I'll do three.
Now, personally I do
five in the morning.
So this morning, I
got up and I did five.
And I did five droppers of C60.
But I've been at it hardcore.
And my body's used to it.
So you can do more as you go.
>>SUE: So how does charcoal
work on a deeper cellular level?
What's happening there?
What's the mechanism?
>>WOLFE: Great question.
This is so interesting.
And we don't really know.
So I've been through
all the journals, all
the scientific journals, all
the medical journals, everything
to try to figure out, OK, what
is the scientific theory that's
behind how charcoal works?
How is it adsorptive?
There's two competing
theories, and they're not
mutually exclusive.
They can be put together.
One of them is
called pie stacking,
and the other is called
Van der Waals forces.
Now those have to do with that
electroplating idea, which
when that toxin gets close to
that surface of that charcoal,
it gets sucked onto it,
and it's glued onto it
electromagnetically.
The problem with pie stacking
and Van der Waals forces
is it doesn't
explain how charcoal
acts at a distance, which it
definitely acts at a distance.
Which means that if I had an
open container of activated
charcoal right here, it's
going to attract toxins
from the other side of
this room to itself.
It will purify the atmosphere
in this environment
here, even if there's
no fans on or anything.
It pulls to itself.
And this is what's
happening in our body.
Most of the charcoal
that we ingest
doesn't actually get
into our bloodstream.
It's in our intestines, and
it stays in our intestines.
And it purifies our
blood by a process
called interstitial
dialysis, an amazing word.
Now, you can imagine by the
time somebody gets to me--
I worked in a Tijuana
clinic for 10 years.
I've been through it in terms
of alternative medicine.
But the general
population and what
it takes to change their
mind, and to break out
of the pill for
every ill theory,
the cut, burn, poison
theory, the doctors
are going to save us
theory, it's a lot.
So by the time they get to me,
they've been through a lot.
And so I would get cases, very
dangerous cases where somebody
is headed for dialysis--
kidney trouble, big time.
So I've been looking
for years, how
do we deal with people who
are headed for dialysis?
What can I get them
that's going to help them?
Because medicine doesn't
have an answer for them.
They're going to go on
dialysis, and then it's
going to get worse,
and worse, and worse.
And they're going
to leave this Earth.
And so eventually I came across
activated charcoal in a process
called interstitial
dialysis, which as that bolus
of activated charcoal
moves through your body--
let's say it's 400 milligrams
or 4,000 milligrams--
I take 4,000 milligrams,
but I'm a heavy user.
What happens is
it pulls to itself
through the portal
vein, essentially,
the toxins in our bloodstream.
So it pulls it right across
and back into the intestines.
So it drains out.
It pulls through our
lymphatic system,
and our large intestine
drains it and pulls it out,
and then we excrete it.
Now about 1% or less of
the activated charcoal
consists of unique molecules
that do penetrate through
into our bloodstream, like
fullerenes, like the carbon 60
molecule.
And those can penetrate into
all the tissues of our body.
And so activated
charcoal is interesting.
Not only that, it activates
sequences of genes.
It's epigenetic in its effect,
that increase in improved
detoxification mechanisms.
Now, that's a very interesting
discovery because you think,
oh, it's just charcoal.
It's inert.
It's not inert.
Our body knows.
Our body has a sense of like,
oh, it's time to unload.
We've got carbon in the house.
Let's get rid of
these toxins now.
And then your body
will react in kind
to the presence of the
carbon being there.
>>SUE: What about
people who are wanting
to detox from heavy metals or
molds, these types of things?
Is it helpful?
>>WOLFE: First line of defense.
I love zeolites.
I love clay.
Nothing compares to
activated charcoal.
It's the bottom and
the basis of it all.
It's also a binder.
Now, one of the things about
taking too much activated
charcoal, which, of
course, I did and probably
other people will
do, is you can get
constipated because it's
too much of a binder.
You've got to go easy.
And by the way, do I take
charcoal with dinner?
You bet, all the time.
Not at the beginning.
Just start with
one in the morning.
But over the years,
I've learned,
like if I eat out somewhere,
I take activated charcoal
with my meal, no question,
usually two, three, four,
or five with the meal.
So I'll never get
a food poisoning,
never get slowed
down, never pick up
any bacteria in that food,
that kind of a thing.
>>SUE: What about the
opposite end of the spectrum--
IBS, Crohn's disease,
inflammation in the bowel?
What effect do you see there?
>>WOLFE: So what
my recommendation
is there is back to what
we mentioned earlier,
which is you're going
to have the water
with the electrolytes.
Now, this is one of those
things that as an investigator
in research in medicine
all my life, essentially
I discovered something
very powerful.
And I'd like anybody
to refute this.
Autoimmune conditions like
allergies, asthma, lupus, IBS,
Crohn's, it's a
looping phenomenon.
I know that because
I have allergies,
and so I know when it loops
it's hard to shut it off,
the autoimmune problem.
The very first way,
and the ancient way,
and the original way to
stop autoimmune looping
is sea salt and water.
Drink salt water.
Now, for me-- I've shown
this many, many times
on video, many, many
times in front of crowds
that when I'm in an
allergy reaction,
within 10 minutes of
drinking salt water it stops.
This is also true with
asthma, and it's also
true with lupus, and other
especially digestive-related
autoimmune.
So this is Dr. Jensen's work,
and I originally found out
about this through Dr. Jensen.
He said we have a major
epidemic in Western civilization
of electrolyte deficiency,
especially salt deficiencies--
magnesium chlorides, potassium
chlorides, sodium chlorides--
the real stuff, not table
salt, not toxic salt,
real electrolytes.
And what that causes is
the body can't actually
get on top of the irritation.
And it becomes an
autoimmune problem.
The salt hydrates the tissue
as the saltwater hydrates.
Now, when you take that and then
you put the charcoal in there,
like just a small
amount in the morning,
you start to shut
down that autoimmune--
Crohn's, IBS, lupus, asthma,
allergies-- first thing
in the morning.
And then if the stress hits
you and suddenly you're like,
it hits me--
planes, trains, automobiles,
whatever-- and all of a sudden
the symptoms come back, I start
getting the itchy eyes and all
that other stuff, I just drink
the saltwater again, take
a little activated charcoal,
and boom, within 10 minutes.
And all people
have to do to prove
that wrong or right is try it.
>>SUE: What I want to make sure
that the viewers understand
is that that may or may not be
something to do preventatively
every day, all the time.
What are your
feelings about that?
Do you think people should do
it everyday preventatively?
>>WOLFE: Well, it's
dosage then, right?
So like for example
I've got people--
I've been through this.
You probably been
through this, too.
Where we drink the eight
glasses of water a day,
eight 8 ounce glasses of water.
And what happened?
We got dehydrated.
Next thing you know it
was like, I got to go pee.
It's like 20 minutes, I got to
then go back to the bathroom
again, because we don't have
the electrolytes to hold
the water in.
So then I got into
this whole thing--
it was an instinct,
really, that led me to it.
And also a Russian researcher
that had showed me this,
basically gave me
the tip on this one.
And eventually
what I realized is
that you have to have
the right amount of water
and the right amount of
electrolytes for you,
which is unique to you.
And it's different for me.
I'm Mediterranean
genetically, so I
can handle a lot of salt.
Way more than I thought.
For example, when people
say like, what do you
mean drink salt water?
I'm talking about a
tablespoon per liter.
Now people go no, no, no.
That's got to be bad.
It can't be bad.
It depends on the person.
>>SUE: And how are
they going to know?
>>WOLFE: They have to try.
It's called the trial
and success method.
>>SUE: So let's go back
to activated charcoal,
its relationship to longevity.
Specifically lay that
out for our viewers.
>>WOLFE: OK.
So I eventually found-- so I
had a thing that happened where
I suddenly went, wait a second.
I better look into activated
charcoal longevity.
It just hit me one day, and
I was like I never looked.
So I got all the books out
there on activated charcoal
that were ever
written, and charcoal.
I went through all the research.
I eventually came across
the Russian gerontologist
Frolkis' work--
F-R-O-L-K-I-S. And
this is a shocker--
it really is a shocker.
He had succeeded in extending
the lifespan of animals
by over 40%.
Even animals-- this
is interesting,
because people came
to him like, well,
does the animals have to
be on activated charcoal
its whole life?
And he found out and
validated a theory
that we have that really one
of the main problems that
causes aging is that we
have metabolic problems
with detoxification that
accumulate and reach
a crisis at a certain
point in our life.
And it's usually
runs 60 years of age.
We're all of a sudden at
a metabolic crisis where
the body goes, well, we
can't detoxify that toxin,
we just leave that one.
We can't deal with this,
we'll just leave that.
We can't do this one either.
We better deal with this
right here, right now,
because this is the
crisis of the moment.
And it's that gets us.
So Frolkis did that research
with activated charcoal
and he found out even if you
start the animals late in life
you could extend their lifespan
dramatically by over 40%.
Now what does that mean?
Because people say, 40%,
what does that mean?
We're human beings, we're
supposed to get 100 years.
If we're really honest and there
was no industry, no toxins,
no pollutants, no stress,
we'd get 100 years.
OK, so that means
if we get 40% more
life, that's 140 years of age.
That's what we're supposed to
get if we do everything right.
And we see that
coming into view now.
That sounded like a
fantasy 10 years ago.
But with the stem cell
research, the cell biology
stuff where you can for example
take natural killer cells out
of your body, multiply them,
put them back in your body.
Those kinds of therapies
with the charcoal,
with the carbon 60, with the
yoga, with the spiritual work--
all of a sudden
the picture becomes
possible of how the yogis--
you know, my favorite yoga
is the Shivapuri Baba.
How did he live to be 137?
Well now I see it.
Now I can see how he did it.
>>SUE: Different lifestyle.
>>WOLFE: Yeah.
>>SUE: Different focal point.
And just it's
becoming easier, too.
If you just want that,
if you focus on that.
>>SUE: So can you
speak to the mechanism
about how in these experiments
with the animals, how
their lifespan was increased
with the metabolic system
and toxicity.
What was the mechanism
there that was happening?
>>WOLFE: So there's
really three types
of toxins we're dealing with.
And one of them is
metabolic toxins,
which are just natural byproduct
toxins of life and living
and stress and normal stuff.
There's another type of
toxin, which is food toxins.
Food has toxins in it.
There's no way around that.
And it's just one of
the things that we
know that the less you
eat the longer you live,
so the more you get to eat.
When I say food
has toxins, and I
mean there's actually
like toxic compounds that
are in there that are good
in certain dosages, for sure.
Like celery-- celery has
toxic compounds in it
that are good in
certain dosages.
Too much is too much, and
you'll have a toxic reaction.
Your body has to detoxify that.
Carbon works on all three of
those, and very aggressively.
Better than clay, better than
zeolites, better than fiber.
Better than anything.
Now I'm not saying those
things aren't important.
All of those things
are important.
I like clay.
I like zeolites.
I like taking in a lot
of fiber and vegetables.
But charcoal is the
king of that pile.
And so it works on absorbing
them and then excreting them.
Now I'm going to say something
that is very important here,
because when you ingest
activated charcoal,
or when an animal
does, it's excreted out
of them in their feces.
And it goes into
the septic system
and continues to work in the
septic system, purifying it.
Because not all the activated
charcoal or charcoal
compounds or carbon 60
compounds are actually
used up in the body.
And so it will continue
to purify the environment.
So for example, if you
have an old toilet,
like my house is 1960 and
the septic systems old.
Oh, as soon as we dump the
charcoal down the toilet,
little tiny-- you want the
smallest stuff, because you
don't want to clog--
you don't want
to dump grains in there because
that can clog your system up.
The smallest material.
Like you take, you
know, powder and so you
dump that in your toilets
over and over and over again,
that smell that comes up
through the toilet disappears.
Because carbon and
activated charcoal
is not only effective at
adsorping physical material
solids, it's also very
capable of absorbing gases.
And that's the
thing that I think
is actually the most
important thing for longevity.
When you have backed up
toxic gases in your body,
that is the worst thing for your
health of all, in my opinion.
>>SUE: And is this the
mechanism of premature aging
that you're referencing?
>>WOLFE: Yes.
Because the toxic buildup shows.
And eventually your body goes,
we've got a toxic load here
and we've got a
toxic load there,
and eventually your body
starts to pile it up.
Now, this is what
Frolkis has shown.
He's shown that this concept or
this theory of aging, that it's
a metabolic buildup of
toxins that gets us,
is the reason why
charcoal is important.
Because it brings
those metabolic
toxins down and takes that
burden off your system.
Which to an everyday
person means more energy.
That's what it means.
It means that you can
do more with less sleep.
I want to get into that,
because that's something--
I've proven that
conclusively to myself.
That the reason why
we need to sleep
is because we're detoxifying
and our body is filtering.
It's got to filter stresses
and metabolic toxins
and toxins we breathe in
from exhaust fumes and all
this other stuff.
And that's why we've
gotta get horizontal
and we've got to
revive, we rejuvenate.
Anyway, when we have
activated charcoal
what ends up happening
is we suck up
all those metabolic
toxins quickly because it
takes the burden off our liver
and our kidneys and our spleen.
We don't have to deal
with all this filtration.
Not only that, but
it also sucks up
the used up neurotransmitters.
Now we've all
heard of serotonin.
We're like, oh, serotonin
makes us feel happy,
happy like the sun.
There's two sides to serotonin.
There's also a sedative
and a lethargic side.
So if you look at
like bee venom,
you look at stinging nettle,
you look at a wasp sting.
And you look at what's
in those venoms,
the main ingredient
is serotonin.
It causes lethargy.
And this is why in
the morning you've
got to get up and drink water.
And as soon as you urinate
out that used up serotonin,
you wake up.
If you start hitting
the activated charcoal
in big dosages--
now you work up to this.
I don't recommend
this for new people.
This is something
you build into.
But for example, I was running
a longevity conference.
I was up for almost
four straight days,
like two hours of
sleep every night.
And then the fourth night I had
to get up and rally volunteers
from 7 till 8 AM.
I went to bed at 6:00.
So I had an hour.
I got up.
I had a liter of water,
my favorite spring water.
And I took 12,500 milligrams
of activated charcoal.
In a half hour I was completely
alert, totally awake,
and perfectly fine
the rest of the day
like I'd gotten eight
hours a night of sleep.
So my recommendation
for those who are
adventurous and
want to investigate
this, as your body
gets used to it
and as you get deep into the
activated charcoal and the C60
and those type of things,
and the fullerenes.
Then you can up the dosage.
And you can start to
see like, oh, there
is a connection between energy
availability and toxic load.
>>SUE: So do you need more to
get the same effect as time
goes on?
>>WOLFE: No.
I'd probably say less.
I mean, for me.
I mean, I don't take
12,500 milligrams now.
I can get away with like
5,000 milligrams or less,
because I can get
that same effect.
I don't have to go overboard.
And it's not-- I guess
it's not an agonist.
Charcoal is not an agonist.
It doesn't linger
in your system.
We say like opiates
are agonists.
Once they hit that
receptor site,
you need more and
more and more of it
to activate that receptor site.
Charcoal is not like that.
>>SUE: Has to be activated?
>>WOLFE: Doesn't have to
be activated, actually.
That's a great question.
I'm glad you brought that up.
People who have very
sensitive digestion,
I recommend going to willow
charcoal or birch charcoal just
by itself.
If you're going to do
activated charcoal,
just do a small amount.
Because activated charcoal
is very aggressive.
And some people,
especially who have
had a history of
digestive disturbance,
you want to just go
to regular charcoal.
It's not as aggressive.
It's calmer on your system.
I have very hardy
digestion, so I
want the more aggressive stuff.
So I've done both
for a long time,
and I didn't even
feel regular charcoal.
It's not strong enough for me.
I need activated charcoal,
and like five capsules.
>>SUE: Did you ever?
Or just now don't?
>>WOLFE: Well, it's
just I just know--
I mean, you notice
over the years.
Like the non-activated
charcoal is just not strong
enough for me.
>>SUE: Are there
super charcoals?
>>WOLFE: Yes, there
are super charcoals.
That's what C60 is.
C60 is first of the
super charcoals,
or fullerenes, named after
Buckminster Fuller, who really
innovated the
geodesic dome, which
mimics very strongly
the structure
of these fullerene
carbon compounds.
And that's why this group of
compounds, which was really
elucidated and discovered
by Kroto and Smalley
and others in their 1996
Nobel Prize victory.
That really began to bring
people to the realization
that when you look at charcoal
and you see it's in layers,
you can-- remember?
You know, you look at
charcoal and you're like,
oh, it's got layers.
Not all of it is in layers.
Some of it is actually
spherical or oblique and ovoid.
And it has the structures
of the Buckminster Fuller
geodesic domes, and that's
why that name stuck.
And interestingly the
most stable of them
is the C60, which is the exact
same structure as a soccer
ball or a football.
It's 20 hexagons
and 12 pentagons.
That's why a football,
or soccer ball,
is that shape, because if
you kick it it won't break.
And that's why the C60 is
so enduring and so strong.
The C70, which is the second
most dominant fullerene you're
going to find in a sample--
let's say a tree
gets hit by lightning
and you're looking at
the fullerenes in there,
60% of those fullerenes will
be C60, 30% will be C70.
C70 is a rugby
ball, and that's why
a rugby ball is a rugby ball.
It's tough, it won't break.
And that's why C70 is the
second strongest of them.
And it's sometimes
called a rugby ballene.
And then there's the
derivative fullerenes,
which are also found with
every production of fullerenes.
You know, so high
electrical arc will form
this against wood or graphite.
And me personally, where
I'm at, because I've
been doing C60 for five years.
I've been making it, I
know everything about it
at this point.
Where I'm at personally is I
make my own C60, C70, and then
related fullerene
products for my own use.
Because that's the more
natural ratio of those things.
The market isn't
ready for that yet.
The market is barely even
ready for C60, right?
So you go to C60 first.
That's got to be developed.
We got to develop
our knowledge there,
and then people get into it.
And then they'll be ready
for what will come next.
>>SUE: How are you making it?
>>WOLFE: I make it--
well, first of all,
I make it with
the best olive oil
in the world,
which is my friends
from the north of Crete.
And they have a olive
tree on their farm
that's 4,000 years old.
And so I love them and
I love their product.
And they supply it-- a lot
of times I'll show up there
in Toronto, and
they'll just be like,
we're just giving this to
you, because we love you.
And because I love
olive oil, and they know
that we have this wonderful--
You know, I'm a promoter
of olive oil, really
good olive oil.
And then you've got to
get the right C60, C70
and related fullerenes.
And it has to come from
a really quality lab.
And I've searched out
labs all over the world
and gotten samples from
labs all over the world.
And we've developed our own lab.
>>SUE: Can you tell
us about the study
that first gave you interest
in C60 and the olive oil?
>>WOLFE: That was Fathi
Moussa's study out of Paris.
He's a Parisian toxicologist
who first got the tip on C60
from Kroto and Smalley and
the Nobel Prize victory.
And he was doing a
toxicology study on rats.
So he was just
figuring out like,
hey, let's just kill
these rats with this stuff
and see how much of this
stuff these rats can
take before they die.
And he did controls.
He did controls
with just olive oil.
He did controls with olive
oil and certain ratios
of fullerenes in it.
You know, this
much C60, more C60.
And what happened was is
actually after five years--
now a rats life spans is
about 2 and 1/2 years--
one of the rats was still
alive, and most of them
had lived 90% longer than
their normal lifespan.
And the prolongation of lifespan
of rodents by carbon 60--
that's roughly the
name of the study--
Fathi Moussa-- M-O-U-S-S-A,
his first name F-A-T-H-I.
>>SUE: Where do people find C60?
>>WOLFE: You can-- I mean,
you have to search around
on the internet and you have
to find a brand that you trust.
>>SUE: How are they going
to know how to trust it?
>>WOLFE: You've got to
trust the person, right,
and who makes it.
And so I've been in the
beginning the longest,
so at this point I think
I know what I'm doing.
I've worked with the
best labs in the world,
in and outside of
the United States,
in and outside of North America.
And all over the world.
And so I'm pretty sure
I've found the best
labs in the world,
which I will not reveal,
because that has been
blood, sweat, and tears.
That's been a very
difficult research
project over many
years and many travels.
>>SUE: Why did scientists
think it was potentially
toxic before the study?
What were they thinking?
>>WOLFE: Well, all
carbon contains
the basis of organic chemistry,
which is the benzene molecule.
That's the basis of
organic chemistry.
And so you're always
curious of like,
OK, with carbon
compounds is there
going to be any aberrant
benzene molecules present?
Could there be solvents present?
Because you can
use solvents like
hexane to extract
fullerenes, and you
want to make sure
that there's nothing
left in your final product.
So that's why you always
want to be cautious.
And that's also why you
want the best carbon
materials and best C60 and
related products out there.
Because you don't want
any solvents sneaking in.
It's interesting, the research
on C60, because it has very,
very strong research
when consumed in oil--
because it's oil soluble,
not water soluble--
but when you try to force
it into water solubility
it's hydrophobic.
It jumps away from water.
And so therefore when you
try to inject it as a powder
into a life form, it can
have a toxic reaction
because it's not
solubilized in oil.
>>SUE: And olive oil versus
other vegetable oils?
Flashpoint?
Why olive oil?
>>WOLFE: Olive oil has the most
research behind it, that's why.
And it's probably the best
material to solubilize in.
I've used avocado oil.
I've used hemp seed oil.
I've used coconut oil.
All of the above.
I personally prefer
olive oil, and that's
what the research
has landed on also.
So you know, we're
going with it.
>>SUE: So we have to be sure
we know how much is too much.
How do we approach this
in a safe manner, where
somebody is not going to create
symptoms for themselves or--
>>WOLFE: You don't want
to detoxify too rapidly
is what you're getting at.
>>SUE: So if they're
detoxifying too rapidly,
let's list symptoms that they're
going to feel immediately
that they need to back off or
slow or shift their approach.
What might they
first experience?
>>WOLFE: OK.
So initially you might have
foggy thinking or very radical
changes in your energy.
You're suddenly up,
then you're suddenly
like I've got to lay down.
Or you might feel
like something's
coming out-- the next thing
you know you have turbid urine.
And you're like, what
just came out of me?
And those kinds of things.
Those are
detoxification symptoms.
You might have stuff
come out of your skin.
But with carbon compounds
you don't really
get that kind of symptom.
You get more of an
internal symptom,
because the carbon can
lock it up pretty well.
It's a matter of excreting it.
So with fullerenes
and carbon 60,
if we're really looking
at the science of it,
are fractionated parts of an
overall activated charcoal.
My recommendation is you
always take them together.
And that's what
the research shows.
It's actually better that
they're taken together than one
separate from the other.
>>SUE: C60 plus the activator?
>>WOLFE: Yes.
Yeah, both together.
My instinct led me
there years ago.
And so when I got into writing--
I'm writing a book
on this right now--
I did find out, I
was like, oh, there's
some research on taking
them both together.
And they work better
together, which was--
that's what I'd felt, for sure.
Because the carbon is a binder.
Your activated charcoal
is your binder.
So if you're stirring
up the muck--
let's say in an organ,
even in your brain--
with the C60, you've
got to make sure you've
got pull that's going
to pull that out of you
and excrete it out of your
bowels and out of your urine.
And that's why you've
got to be smart.
And nature's
solution to pollution
is dilution-- drink more water.
>>SUE: I was going to ask that.
How much more water?
>>WOLFE: I really
like, and recommend,
that people drink three or four
liters of water a day as it is.
But that's a good
number for people
who are like, OK, how much water
do I need to have in a day?
And it's like measure out three
liters, measure out a gallon.
Like get the four liters in.
>>SUE: And what's the study
showing about longevity
and oxidative stress?
>>WOLFE: OK.
So that's one of the
theories about-- this
is what Fathi Moussa
posited about the C60.
What his position was he did
the toxicology study on the rats
and doubled their lifespan.
His position was is that the
C60's bio availability and bio
distribution in particular, and
its super antioxidant effects,
is the reason for its longevity.
And that's why it induces
longevity in animals.
Now, that's a very
strong theory.
I went through, and I
went through like, OK,
can we actually present
another antioxidant
that's stronger than
the carbon 60 molecule?
That's very unlikely.
That's very, very difficult
to prove scientifically.
The C60 may be the strongest
antioxidant ever discovered.
Maybe they're right.
Maybe it is the fact that
it's activated charcoal's
antioxidant
capabilities, carbon 60's
antioxidant capabilities that
are really the reason why
it's extending life.
>>SUE: Is there
anything I shouldn't
be eating or consuming or
taking alongside the same time
that I'm starting and trying to
extract this level of toxicity
out of my system?
What else might I need to know?
>>WOLFE: That brings us
into oxygen and hydrogen.
For people who know my stuff,
the core basis of, I think,
the legit and original
chemistry or alchemy--
which today people are like,
no, we're doing chemistry
and we're really
we're advanced now.
But are we really advanced
with all the toxic byproducts
of our chemistry?
Is that really an advancement?
Is that really progress?
And to my mind I go, no.
We've gone too far.
The alchemists warned us.
We're taught that alchemists
were juvenile chemists
and they were idiots,
and today everybody
knows everything
about chemistry.
If you actually read
alchemical texts-- and I
go to the Philosophical
Research Society in Los Angeles,
where they have the largest
collection of alchemical books
in the Western hemisphere.
And I study there.
And one of things I've found
from reading alchemical texts
is that these people were
very, very smart, and much more
advanced than chemists today.
So if you're taking,
for example, carbon.
This is so good--
this one is so good.
If you take in carbon
and C60 and you
have a lot of carbon in
your system, you attract--
it's a sexual attraction
of opposites--
better quality oxygen to you.
Let me say that again.
I just want to emphasize that.
Carbon attracts oxygen to it.
They're oppositely charged.
Carbon is negatively
charged, like the earth.
Oxygen is positively
charged, like the atmosphere.
And they are opposites
to each other.
If you are a
concentrate of carbon,
the oxygen will go boom,
I'm coming to you first
before someone else, because
you have more carbon.
It's a sexual attraction.
And then that will give birth to
the child, and that's hydrogen.
Now that's the basis of
alchemical chemistry.
I've tried to bring this up
into normal chemistry circles
and mainstream scientism,
because science has become
almost like a religion now.
And as soon as you hear
this science is settled,
right there you know
there's trouble.
Because one thing we
know about science is--
>>SUE: It's never finished.
>>WOLFE: It's never finished.
It goes on.
>>SUE: I've got to go back,
because I know people are going
to want to know I'm taking this
prescription drug that I have
to take at this
point in my health,
is this process going
to be safe for me?
>>WOLFE: That's such
a good question.
Thank you for asking
that question.
Hospitals recommend
two hours apart.
You could take--
let's say somebody
is on thyroid medication.
Hospitals recommend
taking the charcoal
at least two hours apart
from the thyroid medication.
I recommend, from
experience, four hours.
Or even, if you
want to be safer,
on the opposite side of the day.
Because can charcoal
neutralize medication?
And the answer is
absolutely yes it can.
And so therefore certain
secondary alkaloids of herbs,
pharmaceutical medication can
be neutralized by the charcoal.
And therefore we separate them.
That's why I recommend
let's get people
on the charcoal in
the morning, and you
don't have to think about
it the rest of the day.
Or maybe people take Synthroid
first thing in the morning.
I always recommend-- by the way,
even though I'm a vegetarian--
I recommend animal glandulars
before synthetic thyroid
for people who need it.
Because I have a
very dear friend who
lives with me who
has no thyroid,
and she has to be on
the animal glandulars
because she feels better
and she doesn't build up
the toxic thyroid metabolites
like the reverse T3
and other problems that
Synthroid develops.
But if you do that, it has to
be apart from the charcoal.
>>SUE: Where can people
go to learn more?
>>WOLFE: This stuff has never
translated into books yet.
It's not even in books yet.
So what I'd recommend,
if you really
want to learn more from me,
is join my inner circle.
And that's where I make
available all my information
and all my research
and everything
I've ever done in
my entire career.
And so you can always
track me down on Facebook--
David Avocado Wolfe on
Facebook, and davidwolfe.com--
W-O-L-F-E. You can
always find me there.
Or Instagram--
David Avocado Wolfe.
>>SUE: And the name of the
book that we can anticipate?
>>WOLFE: "Charcoal, Activated
Charcoal, and Super Charcoals."
>>SUE: Thank you so much.
>>WOLFE: Thanks so much.
This was fun.
>>SUE: Amazing information.
>>WOLFE: Thank you.
>>SUE: Very fun.
You have a few things to say.
>>WOLFE: A few things.
>>SUE: And I'm thrilled to be
able to share that with you
here.
>>WOLFE: Thanks.
Thanks so much.
>>SUE: I think it's so cool that
David is bringing this emerging
science into the mainstream.
Keep an eye out for
his upcoming book.
For many of us
looking to the future
for anti-aging solutions, we
may wish to pause and research
what discoveries in longevity
are emerging right now.
Globally, humans have thrived
around the hearth or fire,
so it should come as no
surprise that charcoal
is a necessary piece
to preserving vitality.
The topics discussed
today are just
a tiny bit of what
David Wolfe offers
in the realm of wellness.
So be sure to check
out DavidWolfe.com.
I'm Dr. Sue Morter,
and thank you
for watching Healing Matrix.